# Clinical Information

## Summary Table 
#### (also in clinical_info.tsv)

|        |     |     |      |           |                  |                        |              |                                                                                                                                                            | 
|--------|-----|-----|------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| 
| UPN    | Age | Sex | Race | FAB       | %_BM_Blasts_Flow | %_BM_Blasts_Morphology | Total_WBC_PB | Cytogenetics                                                                                                                                               | 
| 508084 | 38  | M   | NH/C | M4        | 52               | 53                     | 140.1        | 46 XY                                                                                                                                                      | 
| 548327 | 52  | M   | NH/C | M1        | 75               | 85                     | 63.7         | 46 XY                                                                                                                                                      | 
| 721214 | 41  | F   | NH/C | M1        | 91               | 90                     | 134.4        | failed                                                                                                                                                     | 
| 782328 | 53  | M   | NH/C | AML w/MDS | 33               | 22                     | 17           | 46,XY,dup(1)(q21q32)[20/20]                                                                                                                                | 
| 809653 | 60  | F   | NH/C | M1        | 36               | 28                     | 16           | 44-47, XX, t(1;15)(q32;q26)[14/20], del(5)(q13-q33)[19/20], -7[20/20], +8[7/20], del(12)(p11.2)[15/20], del17(q21)[8/20], der(22)t(1;22)(p13;p11.2){20/20] | 


## Case Reports

#### 508084
38 year old male diagnosed with AML M4. Blood counts at presentation were WBC 140.1, hemoglobin 7.3, platelets 53,000, with 53% circulating blasts. The bone marrow cellularity was 80-90%, with 53% blasts/promonocytes. Cytogenetics showed a 46 XY karyotype. Molecular diagnostic studies included FLT3 ITD positive, FLT3 D835 negative, NPMc negative, IDH1 & IDH2 negative, and DNMT3A (R882) negative. Initial therapy consisted of 7 + 3 induction with cytarabine and idarubicin.  A bone marrow biopsy at midcycle demonstrated an ablated marrow. A repeat marrow at count recovery demonstrated persistent disease. Salvage chemotherapy consisted of mitoxantrone, high dose cytarabine, and etoposide (Mito EC). A bone marrow biopsy at count recovery again showed persistent disease and he was treated with fludarabine, high dose cytarabine, and idarubicin (FLAG-Ida) followed three weeks later by haploidentical stem cell transplantation with fludarabine and fractionated total body irradiation conditioning, and post-transplant cyclophosphamide. He remains alive in remission 35 months post diagnosis.

#### 548327 
52 year old male diagnosed with AML M1. Blood counts at presentation were WBC 63.7, hemoglobin 9.6, platelets 45,000, with 85% circulating blasts. The bone marrow cellularity was 90%, with 85% blasts. Cytogenetics revealed a 46 XY karyotype. Molecular diagnostic studies included JAK2 negative, FLT3 ITD negative, and FLT3 D835 negative. Initial therapy consisted of 7 + 3 + 3 induction with cytarabine, daunorubicin, and etoposide.  A bone marrow biopsy at midcycle demonstrated an ablated marrow. A repeat marrow at count recovery demonstrated remission. Post-remission therapy consisted of 1 cycle of high dose cytarabine and etoposide chemomobilization, followed by high dose busulfan and etopside with subsequent autologous stem cell rescue, complicated by poor count recovery. Relapse was documented 34 months post diagnosis and treated with 7 + 3 with concurrent administration of an investigational inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) agent. A subsequent marrow demonstrated remission and he received one cycle of mitoxantrone, etoposide, and high dose cytarabine consolidation prior to prior to 3/6 haploidentical stem cell transplant following fludarabine, total body irradiation conditioning and post-transplant cyclophosphamide. He remains alive in remission 117 months post diagnosis.

#### 721214
41 year old female diagnosed with AML M1. Blood counts at presentation were WBC 151.8, hemoglobin 12.3, platelets 46,000, with 19% circulating blasts. The bone marrow cellularity was 90%, with 92% blasts. Cytogenetics were non-informative due to lack of dividing cells. Molecular diagnostic studies included FLT3 ITD positive, FLT3 D835 negative, and NPM-1 positive. Initial therapy consisted of 7 + 3 induction with cytarabine and idarubicin.  A bone marrow biopsy at midcycle demonstrated persistent disease. Salvage chemotherapy consisted of fludaribine, high dose cytarabine, and idarubicin (FLAG-Ida). A subsequent bone marrow biopsy showed persistent disease, and she was enrolled in a clinical trial of mitoxantrone, high dose cytarabine, and etoposide (Mito EC) with concurrent plerixafor, following which she developed rapid progression at count recovery. She died with persistent AML 5 months after diagnosis.

#### 782328
50 year old male diagnosed with MDS/RA with 3% blasts. Cytogenetics showed a 46 XY karyotype with an interstitial duplication of chromosome 1q21. He was initially observed without treatment until presenting 32 months later with leukocytosis and circulating blasts, and a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate showed AML with MDS-related changes (secondary AML). Blood counts at transformation to AML were WBC 17.0, hemoglobin 7.4, platelets 31,000, with 10% ¯circulating blasts. The bone marrow cellularity was 90%, with 22% blasts. Cytogenetics again showed a 46 XY karyotype with an interstitial duplication of chromosome 1q21. Molecular diagnostic studies included FLT3 ITD negative, FLT3 D835 negative, NPM1 negative, and CEBPA negative. Initial therapy consisted of 7 + 3 induction with cytarabine and idarubicin. A bone marrow biopsy at midcycle demonstrated persistent disease and he was re-induced with 5 + 2. A repeat marrow at count recovery demonstrated persistent disease. Salvage chemotherapy consisted of cladribine, high dose cytarabine, and mitoxantrone (CLAM) with concurrent imatinib. A repeat marrow at count recovery demonstrated remission. He subsequently underwent haploidentical stem cell transplantation following fludarabine and fractionated total body irradiation conditioning, and post-transplant cyclophosphamide. He remains alive in remission 41 months after progression to AML.

#### 809653 
60 year old female diagnosed with AML M2. Blood counts at presentation were WBC 15.2, hemoglobin 8.6, platelets 92,000, with 87% circulating blasts. The bone marrow cellularity was 80%, with 62% blasts. Cytogenetics showed a complex karyotype, with monosomy 5q, 7, 17q, and trisomy 8. Molecular diagnostic studies included FLT3 ITD negative and FLT3 D835 negative. Initial therapy consisted of 7 + 3 induction with cytarabine and idarubicin.  A bone marrow biopsy at midcycle demonstrated persistent disease. Salvage chemotherapy consisted of mitoxantrone, high dose cytarabine, and etoposide (Mito EC), following which she had persistent circulating blasts at count recovery and received no further therapy. She died with persistent AML 2 months after diagnosis.
